Tutorials (#2120)
grafana/agent: docs/flow/tutorials/collecting-prometheus-metrics.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/agent/latest/flow/tutorials/collecting-prometheus-metrics
title: Collecting Prometheus metrics
weight: 200
---

> Grafana Agent is a telemetry collector and the primary goal is to get telemetry data from one location to another. The goal of this tutorial is to get a basic working example of Grafana Agent working in Flow mode.  

Reviewer: Do we want to explicitly name the 'pipeline' concept here? I personally think it describes nicely what we're trying to achieve.

Author: After talking with robert yesterday about introducing people to prometheus/agent.  I think pipeline discussion will happen in a future tutorial. Conversely, the `chaining` article might be a good place.

Reviewer 2: Context about our conversation yesterday:

I've been thinking about how we get feedback that our docs are tailored towards people who are already familiar with Prometheus, but the audience of people using Grafana Agent has been growing well beyond that user base. 

It seemed like a good idea for us to use these tutorials as a way to explain Prometheus concepts through Flow, teaching both at the same time, so I passed that suggestion on to Matt.

> Grafana Agent is a telemetry collector and the primary goal is to get telemetry data from one location to another. The goal of this tutorial is to get a basic working example of Grafana Agent working in Flow mode.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Grafana Agent is a telemetry collector with the primary goal of moving telemetry data from one location to another. In this tutorial, you'll set up a Grafana Agent in Flow mode.  
```

# Prerequisites

* [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)

> * Clone the [Agent Repository](https://github.com/grafana/agent) `git clone git@github.com:grafana/agent.git`

Reviewer 3: Should the 'git clone...' command be on its own line?

Author: Makes it easier to copy and paste so fine with changing it.

# Scraping the Agent

> To quickly spin up an example environment run the following: `docker-compose -f ./assets/scraping-the-agent.yaml` with the [flow file](../assets/flow_configs/agent.flow). Allow the service to run for a few minutes and you should be able to navigate to the [metrics browser](http://localhost:3000/explore?orgId=1&left=%5B%22now-1h%22,%22now%22,%22Cortex%22,%7B%22refId%22:%22A%22,%22instant%22:true,%22range%22:true,%22exemplar%22:false,%22expr%22:%22agent_build_info%22%7D%5D). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To quickly spin up an example environment, run the following: `docker-compose -f ./assets/scraping-the-agent.yaml` with the [flow file](../assets/flow_configs/agent.flow). Allow the service to run for a few minutes, then navigate to the [metrics browser](http://localhost:3000/explore?orgId=1&left=%5B%22now-1h%22,%22now%22,%22Cortex%22,%7B%22refId%22:%22A%22,%22instant%22:true,%22range%22:true,%22exemplar%22:false,%22expr%22:%22agent_build_info%22%7D%5D). 
```

![](./assets/agent_build_info.png)

This example scrapes the Grafana Agent's `http://localhost:12345/metrics` endpoint and pushes those metrics to the cortex instance. 

> ## Scraping Component

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Scraping component
```

The [`prometheus.scrape`]({{< relref "prometheus.scrape.md" >}}) component is responsible for scraping the metrics of a particular endpoint and passing them on to another component.

```river

> // prometheus.scrape is the name of component and "default" is the label of a component

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// prometheus.scrape is the name of the component and "default" is its label.
```

prometheus.scrape "default" {

>     // Tell the scraper to scrape at http://localhost:12345/metrics

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    // Tell the scraper to scrape at http://localhost:12345/metrics.
```

>     // Tell the scraper to scrap at http://localhost:12345/metrics

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    // Tell the scraper to scrape at http://localhost:12345/metrics
```

>     // the http:// and metrics are implied but able to be overwritten 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    // The http:// and metrics are implied but able to be overwritten. 
```

    targets = [{"__address__" = "localhost:12345"}]

>     // Forward the scrape results to the receiver, in general 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    // Forward the scrape results to the receiver. In general, 
```

    // Flow uses forward_to to tell which receiver to send results to. 

>     // The forward_to is an argument of prometheus.scrape.default  and 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    // The forward_to is an argument of prometheus.scrape.default and 
```

>     // the receiver is an export prometheus.remote_write.prom

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    // the receiver is an export prometheus.remote_write.prom.
```

    forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.prom.receiver]
}
```

> The `prometheus.scrape "default"` annotation indicates the name of the component, `prometheus.scrape`, and its label, `default`. All components must have a unique combination of name and label.

Author: Good point

> The `prometheus.scrape "default"` annotation tells the name `prometheus.scrape` and the label `default`. All components must have a unique combination of name and label.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `prometheus.scrape "default"` annotation indicates the name of the component, `prometheus.scrape`, and its label, `default`. All components must have a unique combination of name and label.
```

> The `prometheus.scrape "default"` annotation tells the type `prometheus.scrape` and the label `default`. All components must have a unique combination of type and name.

Reviewer: We're using three terms here, 'type', 'label' and 'name'. I think I've used similar terms on the River docs and would ideally like to converge on a common appproach.

My 2c is that we can refer to 
- component 'type' = namespace (we only have Prometheus, discovery and local components now)
- component 'name' = the block name you have to pass, in this case `prometheus.scrape`
- component 'label' = the block label, here "default"

How does that sound to you?

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest we drop it down to two terms:

* Component name: the name of the component `prometheus.scrape`, `prometheus.integration.node_exporter` 
* Component label: the user-assigned label for the component, only provided when the component requires a label. 

I'm not sure if the "namespace" idea is something that becomes user facing. At the moment it seems like an abstract concept we use for naming similar components, but isn't a strict thing users need to be aware of.

Reviewer: Sounds good to me as well. If Matt is also on board, I'll check the other River docs to make sure we're aligned.

Author: Sounds good to me, will change,

> The `targets` [attribute]({{< relref "configuration_language.md#Attributes" >}}) is an [argument]({{< relref "../concepts/components.md">}}). Targets is a list of labels that specify the target via the special key `__address__`. The scraper is targeting the Agent's `/metrics` endpoint. Both the `http` and `/metrics` are implied but can be overridden.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `targets` [attribute]({{< relref "configuration_language.md#Attributes" >}}) is an [argument]({{< relref "../concepts/components.md">}}). `targets` is a list of labels that specify the target via the special key `__address__`. The scraper is targeting the Agent's `/metrics` endpoint. Both `http` and `/metrics` are implied but can be overridden.
```

The `forward_to` attribute is an argument that references the [export]({{< relref "../concepts/components.md">}}) of the `prometheus.remote_write.prom` component. This is where the scraper will send the metrics for further processing.

> ## Remote Write Component

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Remote Write component
```

> The [`prometheus.remote_write`]({{< relref "prometheus.remote_write.md" >}}) is responsible for writing the metrics to a prometheus compatible endpoint (cortex).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [`prometheus.remote_write`]({{< relref "prometheus.remote_write.md" >}}) component is responsible for writing the metrics to a Prometheus-compatible endpoint (Cortex).
```

```river
prometheus.remote_write "prom" {
    remote_write {
        url = "http://cortex:9009/api/prom/push"
    }
}
```

## Running without Docker

To try out the Grafana Agent without using Docker:

> 1. Download the Grafana Agent 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Download the Grafana Agent.
```

> 1. Set the environment variable `EXPERIMENTAL_ENABLE_FLOW=true`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Set the environment variable `EXPERIMENTAL_ENABLE_FLOW=true`.
```

> 1. Run the agent with `agent run <path_to_flow_config>`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Run the agent with `agent run <path_to_flow_config>`.
```
